---
title: 'Creating Landing Pages that convert'
date: '2023-11-26'
description: 'Explore the ins and outs of secure cross-origin communication between embedded iframes and parent windows in web development. Learn how to leverage window.postMessage and a regex filter within the message data object to build a robust and trusted channel for data exchange. This article delves into the practical aspects of overcoming challenges and achieving the delicate balance between security and effectiveness in web development.'
---

# Creating Landing Pages that convert

In the realm of web design, the landing page act as the gateway to user engagement and conversion. It's the digital handshake, where first impressions matter most. While creativity may call for groundbreaking designs, a structured and strategic approach often holds the key to success.

## 1. Navigating the Familiar: The Power of Structured Design

Think of your homepage's structure as a familiar road map guiding visitors through your digital landscape. This structured layout acts as a trusted guide, ensuring a seamless user experience. Let's break down its components:

### Navbar

Positioned at the top, the navigation bar provides a consistent and clear pathway, ensuring easy access to key sections. It should hold links only to the most important features of the page, as a landing page is different from a fully-fledged website.

### Hero Section

Here lies the pivotal first impression. The hero section is the showstopper, featuring compelling content, captivating imagery, and a succinct message that encapsulates the essence of your offering.

### Social Proof

Trust is currency in the digital realm. Showcase logos of reputable clients, glowing testimonials, or impressive metrics. It's the credibility boost that solidifies user trust.

### Call-to-Action (CTA)

The heartbeat of conversion. Placed strategically, it's the catalyst that prompts users to take the desired action, whether it's signing up, making a purchase, or exploring further.

### Features and Objections

Address user concerns head-on. Highlight the key benefits and unique selling points while preemptively addressing potential hesitations or objections. This instills confidence and trust in your offering.

### Repeat CTA

Reinforce the primary call-to-action. Sometimes, a gentle nudge is all it takes. Reiterating the CTA before users leave ensures a higher chance of conversion.

### Footer

Often underestimated, yet highly valuable. It houses essential links for further exploration, contact information, and sometimes a subtle reminder of your brand's mission or values.

## 2. Purposeful Components: Crafting Engagement

Each element plays a crucial role in engaging and guiding the user through their journey. The combination of these components creates a seamless flow, fostering user engagement and, ultimately, conversions.

## 3. The Influence of Consistency: Creating Engagement

Structured design isn't merely about conformity; it's about harnessing user expectations. A familiar structure provides comfort and ease of navigation. Users appreciate predictability and readily absorb information presented in a structured manner.

## 4. Conclusion: Design with Purpose

Embracing a structured design approach isn't about stifling creativity; it's about leveraging proven methods to enhance user engagement and drive conversions. While innovation is crucial, adhering to a structured layout often results in higher user interaction and conversions. Most often is the website that catches fastest the attention of the visitor, and makes him enter his email into the sign-up form, the most successful one.
